# ToDoList

For this assignment, an android app is developed named “To Do List”. Android Marshmallow and API 26 are the required configurations used.
The app is given a general title “To Do List”. There are two EditText boxes, where the user is asked to enter the task title and the task description. If the user does not enter any text in the mentioned fields, then a pop-up asking the users to enter the same will be shown, making sure that for each task there is a title and a description. Once the user enters the title and the description and clicks on the “Add” button, the values from those fields will be displayed in a list. The ListView here has two TextView objects displaying the title and the description each. Each item has a check box in front of it(right end), which when clicked deletes the corresponding item in the list. To execute this, a custom adapter is used. The list occupies the full range under the form fields all the way to the Add Button. The alignments of all the titles and the descriptions are centralized.
A function is added on each task item in the ListView: when the user holds a button click for a long time on the task item, that item is deleted from the list. This is implemented by using OnItemLongClickListener which calls the remove method and deletes the item from that position. By using this, the corresponding item will be deleted only on long click and not on short click.The same is implemented for the Check Box functionality. Once the user clicks the check box, the list item is deleted from that position.
Another functionality is added to the “”Add” button, where by pressing the button, the current contents of the listView will be saved to a text file on the phone. The text file saved as “textFile.txt” is stored in the internal memory of the app when the “Add” button is clicked.
Also, when the user terminates and reopens the app, the existing list is loaded and shown in the listView to the users. This functionality is however not valid when the user closes the app.
